task for copy claim to header (#12427)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/tasks/security/authentication/claim-to-header/index.md

---
title: Copy Jwt Claim to HTTP Header
description: Shows how users can copy their jwt claims to http headers.
weight: 30
keywords: [security,authentication,jwt,claim]
aliases:
    - /docs/tasks/security/istio-auth.html
    - /docs/tasks/security/authn-policy/
owner: istio/wg-security-maintainers
test: yes

> status: Experimental

Reviewer: Is this feature really experimental? If so, you should also add `{{< boilerplate experimental >}}` at the top of the document text (line 13) as well.

---
This task shows you how to copy valid JWT claims to http headers after JWT authentication is successfully completed via Istio request authentication policy.

> Note: Claims of type string, boolean, integer are supported. Array type claims are not supported as of now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< warning >}}
Only claims of type string, boolean, and integer are supported. Array type claims are not supported as of now.
{{< /warning >}}
```

## Before you begin

Before you begin this task, do the following:

> * Complete the [Istio end user authentication task](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/authn-policy/#end-user-authentication).

Reviewer: This doesn't seem like a necessary step in order to complete this task. Do you really mean something like this:
```suggestion
* Familiarize yourself with [Istio end user authentication](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/authn-policy/#end-user-authentication) support.
```

* Install Istio using [Istio installation guide](/docs/setup/install/istioctl/).

* Deploy two workloads: `httpbin` and `sleep`. Deploy these in one namespace,
for example `foo`. Both workloads run with an Envoy proxy in front of each.
Deploy the example namespace and workloads using these commands:

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ kubectl create ns foo
>     $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml@) -n foo
>     $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/sleep/sleep.yaml@) -n foo

Reviewer: Using `istioctl kube-inject` seems kind of ugly. Why not use auto-injection:
```suggestion
    $ kubectl create ns foo
    $ kubectl label namespace foo istio-injection=enabled
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml@ -n foo
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/sleep/sleep.yaml@ -n foo
```

---

> title: Copy Jwt Claim to HTTP Header

Reviewer 2: We seem to use JWT elsewhere. Should this be uppercased as well as in the description (and maybe elsewhere)?

description: Shows how users can copy their jwt claims to http headers.
weight: 30
keywords: [security,authentication,jwt,claim]
aliases:
    - /docs/tasks/security/istio-auth.html
    - /docs/tasks/security/authn-policy/
owner: istio/wg-security-maintainers
test: yes
status: Experimental
---
This task shows you how to copy valid JWT claims to http headers after JWT authentication is successfully completed via Istio request authentication policy.

{{< warning >}}

> Only claims of type string, boolean, and integer are supported. Array type claims are not supported as of now.

Reviewer 2: maybe change as of now to at this time?

{{< /warning >}}

{{< boilerplate experimental-feature-warning >}}

## Before you begin

Before you begin this task, do the following:

* Familiarize yourself with [Istio end user authentication](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/authn-policy/#end-user-authentication) support.

* Install Istio using [Istio installation guide](/docs/setup/install/istioctl/).

> * Deploy two workloads: `httpbin` and `sleep`. Deploy these in one namespace,
> for example `foo`. Both workloads run with an Envoy proxy in front of each.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Deploy `httpbin` and `sleep` workloads in namespace `foo` with sidecar injection enabled.
```

Deploy the example namespace and workloads using these commands:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create ns foo
    $ kubectl label namespace foo istio-injection=enabled
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml@ -n foo
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/sleep/sleep.yaml@ -n foo
    {{< /text >}}

* Verify that `sleep` successfully communicates with `httpbin` using this command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec "$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -n foo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})" -c sleep -n foo -- curl http://httpbin.foo:8000/ip -sS -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n"
    200
    {{< /text >}}

{{< warning >}}
If you don’t see the expected output, retry after a few seconds.
Caching and propagation can cause a delay.
{{< /warning >}}

## Allow requests with valid JWT and list-typed claims

1. The following command creates the `jwt-example` request authentication policy
for the `httpbin` workload in the `foo` namespace. This policy for `httpbin` workload

> accepts a JWT issued by `testing@secure.istio.io` and copy the value of claim `foo` to a http header `X-Jwt-Claim-Foo`:

Reviewer 2: copies?

> for the `httpbin` workload in the `foo` namespace. This policy for `httpbin` workload
> accepts a JWT issued by `testing@secure.istio.io` and copies the value of claim `foo` to a http header `X-Jwt-Claim-Foo`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for the `httpbin` workload in the `foo` namespace. This policy
accepts a JWT issued by `testing@secure.istio.io` and copies the value of claim `foo` to an http header `X-Jwt-Claim-Foo`:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
    kind: RequestAuthentication
    metadata:
      name: "jwt-example"
      namespace: foo
    spec:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: httpbin
      jwtRules:
      - issuer: "testing@secure.istio.io"
        jwksUri: "{{< github_file >}}/security/tools/jwt/samples/jwks.json"
        outputClaimToHeaders:
        - header: "x-jwt-claim-foo"
          claim: "foo"
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1. Verify that a request with an invalid JWT is denied:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec "$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -n foo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})" -c sleep -n foo -- curl "http://httpbin.foo:8000/headers" -sS -o /dev/null -H "Authorization: Bearer invalidToken" -w "%{http_code}\n"
    401
    {{< /text >}}

1. Get the JWT that sets the `iss` and `sub` keys to the same value, `testing@secure.istio.io`.

> This causes Istio to generate the attribute `requestPrincipal` with the value `testing@secure.istio.io/testing@secure.istio.io`:

Reviewer: This is confusing. Why do we care what value Istio generates for the attribute `requestPrincipal`? All the example seems to need is the JWT with issuer `testing@secure.istio.io` and with a `foo` attribute. I would expect that is what this sentence should say this command is doing. Am I missing something?
